It is a great pleasure to welcome you to the official website of Kolkata Police.

Kolkata Police, the oldest Commissionerate in the country with an illustrious history of excellence in all aspects of policing, is committed to its responsibilities towards maintenance of law and order in the city, managing traffic, prevention and detection of crime and spearheading various citizen friendly initiatives for the people of Kolkata.

The challenges before Kolkata Police are many and we are on a mission towards meeting the same through a judicious blend of human resources and technological tools. With unimaginable technological advancements over the recent years in all walks of life, alongside the conventional crimes, the nature and character of cybercrime has undergone a sea-change and Kolkata Police has equipped itself to handle the same with razor-sharp professionalism. This apart, embracing technology has empowered us to manage the bustling city traffic through CCTV surveillance at major intersections. Centrally managed and monitored Automatic signalling system to manage the traffic signals and Automatic Number Plate Recognition Cameras to identify and prosecute violators automatically and without human interference, are in use across the city. The use of speed cameras have proved to be fruitful in controlling road rage. These technological interventions have not only helped in managing traffic better but have also aided in investigation of several crimes.

We are committed towards every citizen of this great city and the routine elements of day-to-day policing apart, Kolkata Police feels privileged to be able to lend out a helping hand to the citizens through a host of community policing initiatives that run throughout the year such as the Nabadisha for street children, Pronam for the senior citizens, Kiran for the lesser privileged and Tejashwini for the girls and women to name a few.

I, on behalf of Kolkata Police, assure you of our sincere and unstinted efforts towards serving the city better and solicit your wholehearted cooperation in our journey towards excellence.

Your suggestions and feedback will be most welcome.

Heartiest greetings!

Jai Hind

Manoj Kumar Verma, IPS
Commissioner of Kolkata Police